Our broadcast this month has the theme Cherish your privilege of prayer.
Do you think it's appropriate to label prayer as a miracle?
Miracles are described in our New World Translation Glossary of Bible terms
as actions are phenomena that surpass all powers known to humans
and are attributed to a supernatural agency.
Does prayer fit that description?
The moment you say a prayer, your innermost thoughts and feelings
are communicated instantly to the Creator from wherever you are,
even if you pray silently.
That's certainly beyond any power humans know.
Therefore, the fact that a human can call out to God in prayer
and be heard by Him is truly a miracle.
It's only by the undeserved kindness of Jehovah that we can approach his heavenly throne in prayer.
Today our lives are very complicated and in some cases very troubled.
Whether young or old, there are times we may feel overwhelmed with our problems.
At other times we may simply feel alone and helpless.
What can we do?
The Apostle Paul says that prayer will help.
Please open your Bible to Philippians 4-6 and listen to his spirit inspired recommendations.
Do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication,
along with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God.
So Paul is saying that in all circumstances of life prayer is essential.
While no one around us can see the inner struggles we may be having,
Jehovah sees them.
What will he do?
Let's read verse 7.
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ Jesus.
This incomparable peace of God is an unusual tranquility enjoyed by Jehovah's dedicated servants,
even in the most trying circumstances.
Have you felt that inner peace that results from intimate communication with Jehovah?
How much we benefit from prayer is closely related to the strength of our personal relationship with Jehovah.
A key factor in that relationship is found at Psalm 37-3.
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good, reside in the earth, and act with faithfulness.
Likely, you'd agree that when we need to talk to someone about our worries, we go to a trusted friend. Why?
It's because we've developed a relationship with him. He knows us and our situation, and we know we can count on him.
More than ever, we need a close personal relationship with Jehovah.
For that to be possible, we must be convinced that Jehovah knows who we are and that he understands us, our situation, our worries, our concerns, and our needs.
Notice what Jehovah promises in verses 4 and 5.
Find exquisite delight in Jehovah, and he will grant you the desires of your heart.
Commit your way to Jehovah, rely on him, and he will act in your behalf.
Jehovah does know who we are. He understands us better than anyone else, even better than we understand ourselves.
He invites us to trust him, and he promises to act in our behalf.
The miracle of prayer lets us experience Jehovah's love in a truly intimate way.
Our Father personally takes the time to listen to us. He has not delegated that to anyone else.
However, you might be wondering, why would the Creator of the universe want to listen to me?
The inspired answer at 1 Peter 5.7 says, because he cares for you.
Your determination to keep doing the best you can to serve him in spite of all the problems you face endears you to him.
He feels for you and is eager to help.
How does that make you feel? At Psalm 111, it says,
I love Jehovah because he hears my voice, my pleas for help.
Even though we can't see him listening to us, it's as if we feel Jehovah's loving arms around us when we pray.
As a result, the more we pray, the more our love and trust in him grows.
What else will help us to build our love and trust in our God, Jehovah?
It's more than recognizing that he hears our prayers. We must be convinced that he answers our prayers.
What evidence do we have that Jehovah answers prayers?
Let's look at some specific answers to prayers both past and present.
Open your Bible to 2 Chronicles 20.
When Judah was threatened by the combined forces of Ammon and Moab in the mountainous region of Seer,
King Jehosaphat humbly prayed for Jehovah's help.
In verse 12, he prayed,
Oh, our God, will you not execute judgment on them?
For we are powerless before this large crowd that is coming against us.
And we do not know what we should do, but our eyes are toward you.
What was Jehovah's answer?
There was no voice from heaven.
Jehovah caused a prophet to speak up.
Verse 15 says,
Here is what Jehovah says to you,
Do not be afraid or be terrified because of this large crowd for the battle is not yours, but God's.
Then verse 17 continues,
You will not need to fight this battle.
Take your position, stand still,
and see the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.
Did you note the formula?
Jehovah's dedicated servant is facing a serious problem.
He prays specifically,
and then he remains attentive to the answer.
The answer may have seemed strange to Jehosaphat.
Jehovah didn't provide a battle plan.
As strategies go,
just walking out to meet the enemy doesn't sound like a very good one.
But Jehosaphat discerned that this was the answer from Jehovah,
and he let it direct his actions.
What happened?
Jehovah fought for Judah by striking confusion into the ranks of the enemy so that they slaughtered one another.
Jehosaphat's prayer was answered in a mighty way.
We have examples in the first century of collective prayers being answered.
One occasion was when King Herod was out to gain the favor of the Jews.
So he had the Apostle Peter imprisoned and placed under heavy guard.
What would the congregation do?
Acts 12-5 gives us the answer.
So Peter was being kept in the prison,
but the congregation was intensely praying to God for him.
Did Jehovah answer their prayers in behalf of Peter?
The account in verses 7-11 tells us that an angel of Jehovah led Peter out of jail
and delivered him to safety.
Imagine how these events must have drawn the Christians in Jerusalem closer to Jehovah
when they saw that he had answered their prayers.
What about today?
Consider the example of our brothers in South Korea.
Over the years, more than 19,000 of our brothers have been imprisoned as conscientious objectors to military service.
Did you personally pray in behalf of these brothers that they might endure in their faith
or that they might be released from prison if it was Jehovah's will?
We're sure you did.
In fact, many of you prayed for these brothers by name,
just as the congregation in the first century prayed in behalf of Peter.
With what result?
In 2018, a series of court rulings in South Korea finally recognized conscientious objection to military service for religious reasons
as a fundamental human right,
and our brothers were gradually released from their prison bonds.
What do you think?
Did Jehovah hear our prayers in behalf of these dear brothers?
As a worldwide brotherhood, there can be no doubt that our incessant prayers to Jehovah were a major factor in these marvelous developments
and we praise and thank Jehovah that he's heard our prayers.
What does this review of how Jehovah answered the prayers of his servants in the past and present due for us?
Doesn't it build confidence that Jehovah is listening and acting on the prayers of his people?
The Apostle John had that confidence.
He wrote at first John 514,
and this is the confidence that we have toward him,
that no matter what we ask according to his will, he hears us.
But now the question is, when was the last time that Jehovah answered one of your personal prayers?
We spend much time on learning how to pray and what to pray for,
but do we put forth enough effort on identifying the answers to our prayers?
For us to have the closeness to Jehovah, we must be certain that he's listening and responding to our personal prayers.
It may not always be readily discernible just how some prayers are answered.
So what can we do?
Take time to meditate on Jehovah's response to your prayerful requests.
If you're married, freely discuss matters that you've prayed for in common
and how Jehovah may be answering those prayers.
Be observant and alert to things that are happening around you
and learn to connect these things with the answers to your prayers.
Make your prayers more specific and you'll become more keenly aware of Jehovah's answers,
even though they may be subtle.
Identifying your answered prayers will make Jehovah more real to you.
This process of identifying answers to our prayers should be learned early on in one spiritual development.
We cannot take it for granted that our children or our Bible students will connect the answers they receive to the prayers they've offered.
One witness said, I find that people feel closer to God if I help them to recognize answers to their prayers.
What if we can't identify the answer to one of our prayers?
Does that mean it wasn't according to Jehovah's will?
Not necessarily.
There are two important factors that might be involved.
One is that Jehovah knows the best time and way to answer our prayers.
He takes all matters into consideration.
The answer may not come according to our time table, but it will come.
So we must be patient and keep looking for the answer.
The second factor that Jehovah considers is the issue raised by Satan regarding man's integrity.
Listen again to the challenge Satan makes as recorded at Job 1, 10, and 11.
Have you not put up a protective hedge around him in his house and everything he has?
You have blessed the work of his hands and his livestock his spread out in the land.
But for a change, stretch out your hand and strike everything he has and he will surely curse you to your very face.
Jehovah permitted this issue to be raised out of love for his intelligent creatures.
He permitted Job to undergo a test by Satan before the entire universe.
Jehovah gives his creatures the privilege of proving the devil a liar and of removing the slander not only from God's name, but also from their own.
So Jehovah seeing the entire issue may allow his servants to endure trials.
But that doesn't mean he's not answering the prayer the afflicted.
When we're under trial, we may have prayed for relief, but we may have also prayed let your name be sanctified.
We must remain convinced that Jehovah will not simply answer a prayer he will provide the best answer.
Isn't it true that when we maintain our integrity, even through serious illness, it can be a tremendous witness to others?
That was the case with Jared Scepter.
Cutsworth says, remember then your grand creator in the days of your youth before the days of your stress come.
In the days of distress, they arrived early on Jared at 11.
Jared was diagnosed with lymphoma cancer in the middle of 1991.
We started trying to figure out how we could get him the treatment that he needed of course, but in no way would we accept a blood transfusion and neither would Jared.
But Jared was in the hospital child protection services did investigate us. They were concerned there was negligence.
It was just adding to the pain.
The way it turned out, they back completely away from that. They realized we hadn't been negligent.
So as we face different situations, we pray at the time not to have miraculous answers, but for Jehovah to open our eyes and to be able to find things.
And it seemed as though he was really directing us so that we could take care of ourselves spiritually through this situation as well as take care of Jared's medical needs.
I remember many times falling on my knees and praying and thinking this is it, I'm test to be on record bear and Jehovah would strengthen me.
And someone would come or they would say something and they fed us.
The brother made a schedule and he said, you're going to feed these friends.
And the brothers' instructions were, you don't bring it and just drop the food, you stay with those friends.
It made me cry, the love and the caring that we experienced.
One time I remember the hallways of this hospital, 1,500 miles away from our home, started filling up with people.
To me, that's answering prayers too.
It was hard for us to get out of the hospital.
So they recorded talks, they would look us in the eye and they'd say, now you need to listen to this.
It will keep you strong.
Jared was worried about us and he made it clear.
He was going to be fine. He just didn't know if we were going to be.
He died in June of 1992.
He was at home.
And the last thing he said to us was, work hard so we can all be together again.
It's numbing because it's almost like you're living in nightmare.
Because you never think that those things all happened to you.
But it did. I didn't want people to see me cry. I didn't want pity.
I didn't because of that.
Those negative feelings, my imagination ran wild.
What helped me, I know was Gary putting into my heart and mind that this is a fight.
It's been a challenge for all mankind that if you make a heart on them, they don't love you.
Satan said that about Jehovah and individuals.
So I would be giving into that.
The strong feelings I had in my sorrow almost made me stop.
I prayed a lot to go back to the Kingdom of all.
The congregation cried. They lost a little boy.
It wasn't just Gary and Beth. They lost a little boy.
They cried. I didn't feel alone.
We hugged, we cried together.
It really benefited us to get right back in the spiritual focus and get our mind up ourselves.
And I could have gave into my pain and thought, well, I'm too heartbroken.
It made me have more joy because I realize that now they have all.
People around us were vital. The support system Jehovah has.
And his word, his spirit, Jehovah answered those prayers.
Our goal was really to stay in the full-time ministry.
Maybe doing something else, but we never ever thought we would be in the circuit work.
But to have our daughter working with their husband in the circuit work,
it's almost hard to believe it's happening.
We look forward to seeing Jared again, having him back with us.
So I'm waiting and I know I'm not going to be disappointed.
How encouraging to know that Gary and Beth are able to take vacation time to travel occasionally
to see their daughter and her husband who are also serving in the traveling work.
And did you notice how Gary, Beth, and Jared felt Jehovah's loving support
as they prayed throughout this heart-wrenching trial?
They asked for wisdom when seeking medical treatment for Jared.
Jehovah put his arms around them and listened when they felt overwhelmed with grief and negative feelings.
He strengthened Jared's hope in the resurrection and helped brother and sister-sector stay spiritually strong.
Can there be any doubt that Jehovah was answering their prayers?
Doesn't that strengthen our conviction that Jehovah will also answer Jared's prayer
that they all will be together again?
No, Jehovah didn't miraculously cure Jared.
But through his endurance and strong faith,
Jerry gives a witness to the universe that even a child that trusts in Jehovah
can prove his loyalty to death.
Now, other situations may turn out differently and not end up in death.
If an individual feels that relief was because of Jehovah's intervention,
he should certainly give thanks.
However, we must recognize that Jehovah knows the best way to handle matters
so that it results in honor to his name and to the lasting good of his servants.
Finally, it's worth mentioning that the Bible often connects our remaining spiritually alert with our need to pray.
At Matthew 26.41, Jesus said,
keep on the watch and pray continually.
At first Peter 4.7, Peter wrote,
but the end of all things has drawn close.
Therefore, be sound in mind and be vigilant with a view to prayers.
Indeed, our prayers are so important,
our personal prayers will help us to remain spiritually alert and active in God's service
as we await the great tribulation that lies just ahead of us.
So in summary, our prayers to Jehovah reveal the closeness of our relationship with Him
and the degree of our dependence upon Him.
They show the trueness of our faith, the depth of our devotion and the genuineness of our appreciation.
Our prayers also help us remain spiritually alert as we endure these last days before the great tribulation.
We'll be drawn even closer to Jehovah when we learn to recognize His answers to our prayers.
Yes, we can be assured that Jehovah will not fail in giving us the desires of our heart
as we continue rendering Him sacred service.
May we all cherish our marvelous, miraculous privilege of prayer.